OSDOCS-17788 Jobset Operator GA docs (#104660)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/jobset-volume-claim-policies.adoc

[id="js-volume-claim-policies_{context}"]
= Configuring volume claim policies for {js-operator}

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure a JobSet to automatically create and manage shared PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) across multiple ReplicatedJobs. This is useful for workloads that require shared access to datasets, models, or checkpoints.

.Prerequisites

* You have the {js-operator} installed in your cluster.
* You have set a default storage class or chosen a storage class for your workload.

.Procedure

. Define the volume templates in the `spec.volumeClaimPolicies` section of your JobSet YAML file.
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
metadata:
  name: <job_name>
spec:
  volumeClaimPolicies:
    - templates:
        - metadata:
            name: <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>
          spec:
            accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]
            storageClassName: mystorageclass
            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
      retentionPolicy:
        whenDeleted: Retain
----
+
where:
+
--
`metadata.name`:: The <job_name> is your unique identifier for your jobs within your namespace.

> `volumeMounts.name`:: The name used here must match <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>. A volume will be automatically added to the pod that will mount a PVC created with <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>-<job_name> name.

Author: The `where` here is referring to this YAML example. This is the new format for identifying variables in YAML files because callouts are not supported in DITA.

> `volumeMounts.name`:: The name used here must match <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>. A volume will be automatically added to the pod that will mount a PVC created with <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>-<job_name> name.

Reviewer: Yes, but we have two YAML snippets and the `volumeMounts.name` appears in the latter one. Anyway,  this is not a big issue. Otherwise the PR LGTM.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/jobset_operator/managing-jobset.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="js-volume-claim-policies_{context}"]
= Configuring volume claim policies for {js-operator}

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure a JobSet to automatically create and manage shared PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) across multiple ReplicatedJobs. This is useful for workloads that require shared access to datasets, models, or checkpoints.

.Prerequisites

* You have the {js-operator} installed in your cluster.
* You have set a default storage class or chosen a storage class for your workload.

.Procedure

. Define the volume templates in the `spec.volumeClaimPolicies` section of your JobSet YAML file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
metadata:
  name: <job_name>
spec:
  volumeClaimPolicies:
    - templates:
        - metadata:
            name: <volume_mounts_name>
          spec:

>             accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]

Reviewer: depending on the prerequisite, there could be a storage class set here

            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
                retentionPolicy:
        whenDeleted: Retain
----
+
where:
+
--
`name`:: The name used here must match the `volumeMounts.name` in your container specification.
`retentionPolicy.whenDeleted`:: Optionally, you can keep data after the JobSet is deleted by setting the `retentionPolicy.whenDeleted` field to `Retain`.
--

. In your `replicatedJobs` configuration, add a `volumeMount` that matches the template name defined in step 1.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
    - name: node
      template:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
                - name: node
                  image: busybox
                  volumeMounts:
                    - mountPath: /workspace/checkpoints

>                       name: checkpoints

Author: Makes sense.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/jobset_operator/managing-jobset.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="js-volume-claim-policies_{context}"]
= Configuring volume claim policies for {js-operator}

[role="_abstract"]
You can configure a JobSet to automatically create and manage shared PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) across multiple ReplicatedJobs. This is useful for workloads that require shared access to datasets, models, or checkpoints.

.Prerequisites

* You have the {js-operator} installed in your cluster.
* You have access to the cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges.

> * You have defined the storage requirements for your workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have set a default storage class or chose a storage class for your workload.
```

.Procedure

. Define the volume templates in the `spec.volumeClaimPolicies` section of your JobSet YAML file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
metadata:
  name: <job_name>
spec:
  volumeClaimPolicies:
    - templates:
        - metadata:
            name: <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>
          spec:

>             storageClassName: mystorageclass

Reviewer: we can keep the accessModes as well

                storage: 1Gi
      retentionPolicy:
        whenDeleted: Retain
----
+
where:
+
--
`metadata.name`:: The <job_name> is your unique identifier for your jobs within your namespace.
`volumeMounts.name`:: The name used here must match the `volumeMounts.name` in your container specification.
`retentionPolicy.whenDeleted`:: Optionally, you can keep data after the JobSet is deleted by setting the `retentionPolicy.whenDeleted` field to `Retain`.
--

. In your `replicatedJobs` configuration, add a `volumeMount` that matches the template name defined in step 1.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
    - name: node
      template:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
                - name: node
                  image: busybox
                  volumeMounts:
                    - mountPath: /workspace/<volumeMounts_name>
                      name: <volumeMounts_name>
----
+
where:
+
--
`volumeMounts.name`:: JobSet automatically creates the PVC and injects a volume into the pod.
--

. Apply the JobSet configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f jobset.yaml
----

.Verification

> . Verify that the PVCs were created using the naming convention `<claim_name>-<jobset_name>`:

Reviewer: this is correct

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ai_workloads/jobset_operator/managing-jobset.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="js-volume-claim-policies_{context}"]
= Configuring volume claim policies for {js-operator}

[role="_abstract"]

> You can configure a JobSet to automatically create and manage shared PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) across multiple ReplicatedJobs. This is useful for workloads that require shared access to datasets, models, or checkpoints.

Reviewer 2: We normally write it as "persistent volume claims" when talking about them generically. I am not familiar with ReplicatedJobs but I assume this could also be written as "replicated jobs".

Details on the guidelines are here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting

It it specific to API objects, but really applies to just any generic concept or idea as well. If you need to get specific with replicated jobs, then it should be written exactly as it appears as an object or in the configuration, but then in backticks and with a qualifier. For example, "across multiple `replicatedJob` configurations" or something. But I don't think that seems right here.

```suggestion
You can configure a JobSet to automatically create and manage shared persistent volume claims (PVCs) across multiple replicated jobs. This is useful for workloads that require shared access to datasets, models, or checkpoints.
```

.Prerequisites

* You have the {js-operator} installed in your cluster.
* You have set a default storage class or chosen a storage class for your workload.

.Procedure

. Define the volume templates in the `spec.volumeClaimPolicies` section of your JobSet YAML file.
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
metadata:
  name: <job_name>
spec:
  volumeClaimPolicies:
    - templates:
        - metadata:
            name: <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>
          spec:
            accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]
            storageClassName: mystorageclass
            resources:
              requests:
                storage: 1Gi
      retentionPolicy:
        whenDeleted: Retain
----
+
where:
+
--
`metadata.name`:: The `<job_name>` is your unique identifier for your jobs within your namespace.

> `retentionPolicy.whenDeleted`:: Optionally, you can keep data after the JobSet is deleted by setting the `retentionPolicy.whenDeleted` field to `Retain`.

Reviewer 2: This should be the full dot notation listed here. I'm not totally certain of the hierarchy, but from what I can tell it would be something like: 

```suggestion
`spec.volumeClaimPolicies.retentionPolicy.whenDeleted`:: Optionally, you can keep data after the JobSet is deleted by setting the `retentionPolicy.whenDeleted` field to `Retain`.
```

Perhaps check your other YAML callout alternatives to be sure they also show the full dot notation naming from the beginning

> `volumeMounts.name`:: The name used here must match <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>. A volume will be automatically added to the pod that will mount a PVC created with <persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>-<job_name> name.

Reviewer: nit: `volumeMounts.name` is referenced later

--

. In your `replicatedJobs` configuration, add a `volumeMount` that matches the template name defined in step 1.
+
.Example
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: jobset.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: JobSet
    - name: node
      template:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
                - name: node
                  image: busybox
                  volumeMounts:
                    - mountPath: /workspace/checkpoint
                      name: <volumeMounts_name>
----
+
where:
+
--
`volumeMounts.name`:: The name used here must match `<persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>`. A volume will be automatically added to the pod that will mount a PVC created with `<persistent_volume_claim_name_prefix>-<job_name>` name.
--
. Apply the JobSet configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f jobset.yaml

Reviewer 2: You never actually referenced this file name in the procedure. So I'd either make this a generic filename replaceable value, or consider referencing it earlier in the procedure.
